Add Kubeflow Trainer TrainJob example to Run Jobs Using Python docs (#12700)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/python_jobs.md

That looks like pi! 🎉️🥧️
If you are interested in running this same example with YAML outside of Python, see [Run an MPIJob](/docs/tasks/run/kubeflow/mpijobs/).

### Kubeflow Trainer Job

> For this example, we will use [Kubeflow Trainer](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/trainer/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we will use [Kubeflow Trainer](https://trainer.kubeflow.org/en/latest/)
```

to submit a `TrainJob` (the Kubeflow Trainer v2 API), and specifically the
[Kubeflow SDK](https://github.com/kubeflow/sdk) to do this easily. Unlike the previous
examples, the SDK builds and submits the resource for us, so we don't construct the CRD by
hand. The `kubeflow` dependency is declared in the script's inline metadata and will be
automatically installed by `uv run`.

This example assumes Kubeflow Trainer v2 is installed, the built-in `torch-distributed`
`ClusterTrainingRuntime` is available, and Kueue is configured to manage TrainJobs. For these
prerequisites (installing Kubeflow Trainer, the runtime, and enabling the TrainJob

> integration in Kueue), follow the [Run A TrainJob](/docs/tasks/run/trainjobs/) guide. You'll

Reviewer: It would be nice to update the Kueue guide with this new Trainer website in the followup PR: https://trainer.kubeflow.org/en/latest/
cc @Sridhar1030  @h0pers

other examples set on their job metadata).

Now try running the example:

```bash
uv run sample-trainjob.py
```
```console
⭐️ Submitting TrainJob to runtime torch-distributed...
⭐️ Created TrainJob md3b82e943a5
Use:
"kubectl get queue" to see queue assignment
"kubectl get trainjobs" to see TrainJobs
```

You'll be able to see the TrainJob admitted to the local queue:

```bash
kubectl get queue
```
```console
NAME         CLUSTERQUEUE    PENDING WORKLOADS   ADMITTED WORKLOADS
user-queue   cluster-queue   0                   1
```

Once admitted, Kueue unsuspends the TrainJob and it starts running:

```bash
kubectl get trainjobs
```
```console
NAME           STATE       AGE
md3b82e943a5   Suspended   15s
```

The `STATE` column shows the type of the TrainJob's latest status condition rather than a
live phase, so a running TrainJob reads `Suspended` and only becomes `Complete` once
training finishes.

A TrainJob runs on top of a JobSet, so its training pods carry the
`jobset.sigs.k8s.io/jobset-name` label set to the TrainJob name. You can follow the
training output:

```bash
kubectl logs -l jobset.sigs.k8s.io/jobset-name=md3b82e943a5 --tail=-1
```

> ```console

Reviewer: Instead of using `kubectl` get we use Kubeflow SDK APIs to get, watch, and print logs of a TrainJob?
You can check example in this Notebook:
https://github.com/kubeflow/trainer/blob/master/examples/pytorch/image-classification/mnist.ipynb

That looks like pi! 🎉️🥧️
If you are interested in running this same example with YAML outside of Python, see [Run an MPIJob](/docs/tasks/run/kubeflow/mpijobs/).

### Kubeflow Trainer Job

For this example, we will use [Kubeflow Trainer](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/trainer/)
to submit a `TrainJob` (the Kubeflow Trainer v2 API), and specifically the
[Kubeflow SDK](https://github.com/kubeflow/sdk) to do this easily. Unlike the previous
examples, the SDK builds and submits the resource for us, so we don't construct the CRD by
hand. Given our Python environment created in the [setup](#before-you-begin), we can install
the SDK directly to it as follows:

```bash

> pip install kubeflow

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/pull/12615

I was hoping to change this to use uv so its cleaner as a script.

Author: 🤦🏻 sorry about that! I'm following now the structure you setting in your PR. PTAL!

```

This example assumes Kubeflow Trainer v2 is installed, the built-in `torch-distributed`
`ClusterTrainingRuntime` is available, and Kueue is configured to manage TrainJobs. For these
prerequisites (installing Kubeflow Trainer, the runtime, and enabling the TrainJob
integration in Kueue), follow the [Run A TrainJob](/docs/tasks/run/trainjobs/) guide. You'll
also need the queues created:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/main/site/static/examples/admin/single-clusterqueue-setup.yaml
```

Write the following script to `sample-trainjob.py`:

{{< include file="examples/python/sample-trainjob.py" lang="python" >}}

The Kueue integration is the `Labels` option, which sets the `kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name`
label on the TrainJob so Kueue can admit it to the right local queue (the same label the
other examples set on their job metadata).

Now try running the example:

```bash
python sample-trainjob.py
```
```console
⭐️ Submitting TrainJob to runtime torch-distributed...
⭐️ Created TrainJob md3b82e943a5
Use:

> "kubectl get queue" to see queue assignment

Reviewer 3: is queue a shortcut for clusterqueue? Also if you just get it, I dont think it would tell you which one trainjob is assigned to

Author: nope! is a shortcut for `localqueue`. I just followed the convention set by the other examples ([Sample job](https://github.com/kaisoz/kueue/blob/551f82db014905dc2fc778b2c48303248103c8f7/site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/python_jobs.md?plain=1#L81), [Flux Operator Job](https://github.com/kaisoz/kueue/blob/551f82db014905dc2fc778b2c48303248103c8f7/site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/python_jobs.md?plain=1#L191), [MPI Operator Job](https://github.com/kaisoz/kueue/blob/551f82db014905dc2fc778b2c48303248103c8f7/site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/python_jobs.md?plain=1#L325)), but I see how this can be confusing, I can change it if you prefer 😊
